This video will give
you an overview of
Bayes rule and go over
some probability.
Don't worry if your math
is a little bit rusty.
We'll go through this
together, step-by-step.
Probability is fundamental
to many applications in NLP.
You'll see how you
can use it to help
classify whether a tweet
is positive or negative.
Let's get started. To start,
we are going to
first review what's
probabilities and conditional
probabilities are,
how they operate,
and how they can be
expressed mathematically.
Then I'll go over how to derive
Bayes rule from the definition
of conditional probabilities.
Bayes rule is applied in
many different fields,
ranging from medicine
to education
and is used extensively in NLP.
Once you understand the
theory behind Bayes rule,
you can use it to perform
sentiment analysis on tweets,
which will be this
week's assignments.
Then in the next course,
you'll implement
auto-correct using
its basic formulation as well.
Imagine you have an
extensive corpus
of tweets that can
be categorized
as either positive or negative
sentiment, but not both.
Within that corpus,
the word happy is
sometimes being labeled positive
and sometimes negative.
Let's explore why this
situation is occurring.
One way to think
about probabilities
is by counting how
frequently events occur.
Suppose you define event A
as a tweets being
labeled positive,
then the probability of event A,
shown as B of A here,
is calculated as the ratio
between the counts of
positive tweets in
the corpus divided by
the total number of
tweets in the corpus.
In this example, that
number comes out to
13 over 20, or 0.65.
You could also
express this value as
a percentage, 65
percent positive.
It's worth noting that
the complimentary
probability here,
which is the probability
of the tweets
expressing a negative sentiment
is just equal to one minus
the probability of a
positive sentiment.
Note that for this to be true,
all tweets must be
categorized as either
positive or negative
but not both.
Let's define Event B in
a similar way by counting
tweets containing
the word happy.
In this case, the total number
of tweets containing
the word happy,
shown here as N-happy is 4.
Here's another way
of looking at it.
Take a look at the section
of the diagram were
tweets are labeled positive
and also contain the word happy.
In the context of this diagram,
the probability that
a tweet is labeled
positive and also
contains the word happy
is just the ratio of the area of
the intersection divided by
the area of the entire corpus.
In other words, if there were
20 tweets in the corpus,
and three of them are labeled
positive and also
contain the word happy,
then the associated
probability is
3 divided by 20 or 0.15.
You now know how to calculate
the probability of
an intersection.
You know how to calculate
the probability of a word,
namely happy with the
probability of being positive.
In the next video, we will
talk about Naive Bayes.